[Observability] 9.2 release notes (#3512)
elastic/docs-content: release-notes/elastic-observability/index.md

% ### Fixes [elastic-observability-next-fixes]
% *

## 9.2.0 [elastic-observability-9.2.0-release-notes]

### Features and enhancements[elastic-observability-9.2.0-features]

* users can create routing conditions directly from preview table in Streams. [#235560]({{kib-pull}}235560).

> * Adds new Observability navigation [#233784]({{kib-pull}}233784).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates the Observability navigation menu [#233784]({{kib-pull}}233784).
```

* Observability navigation uses new icons [#236808]({{kib-pull}}236808).
* Adds functional tests for Logs Essentials tier to cover tier-specific behavior [#234904]({{kib-pull}}234904).
* Observability onboarding Playwright tests now support Logs Essentials tier [#234644]({{kib-pull}}234644).
* Adds **View in Discover** to the alerts details page for Synthetics Monitor Status and TLS alert rules. [#234104]({{kib-pull}}234104).
* Adds **View in discover** to the alerts details page for SLO burn rate and ES query rules [#233855]({{kib-pull}}233855).

> * Adds **View in discover** button in alert details header [#233259]({{kib-pull}}233259).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds **View in discover** button to alert details header [#233259]({{kib-pull}}233259).
```
To match the preceding bullets better, I'd suggest that the previous two should also say "button", or this one should not say it.

* Adds time range filter to links from alert details to related dashboards [#230601]({{kib-pull}}230601).
* Adds rules callout in metric, logs, and inventory rules [#237085]({{kib-pull}}237085).

> * Adds ability for users choose how to recover alerts, when the monitor is back up or when the condition is no longer met. [#229962]({{kib-pull}}229962).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds to option to choose when to recover alerts: when the monitor is back up or when the condition is no longer met [#229962]({{kib-pull}}229962).
```

* Adds the **Trace timeline** to Discover flyout [#234072]({{kib-pull}}234072).
* Adds `send_traces`, `send_metrics`, and `send_logs` agent configuration settings for EDOT Node.js [#233798]({{kib-pull}}233798).
* Adds the ability to link dashboards to SLOs [#233265]({{kib-pull}}233265).
* Adds dashboard references to SLO saved objects [#232583]({{kib-pull}}232583).

> * Adds dashboard tags for linked dashboards and suggested dashboards on the alert details page **Related dashboards** tab [#228902]({{kib-pull}}228902).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds dashboard tags for linked dashboards and suggested dashboards on the alert details page's **Related dashboards** tab [#228902]({{kib-pull}}228902).
```

* When fetching dashboards, referenced panels are also fetched [#228811]({{kib-pull}}228811).
* Moves the installation settings for the Knowledge Base and Product Docs components into a single location. [#232559]({{kib-pull}}232559).
* Observability AI Assistant is now aware of LLM-facing documentation for any installed integrations in the user's cluster [#237085]({{kib-pull}}237085).
* Adds `raw_request` to traces for `.gen-ai`, `.gemini`, and `.bedrock` connectors [#232229]({{kib-pull}}232229).

> * Installs product docs when the knowledge base is installed [#228695]({{kib-pull}}228695).

Reviewer: I think this could description could be scrapped and the PR added to the description of {{kib-pull}}232559) above

* Adds manual test for bulk import functionality for Observability AI Assistant [#225497]({{kib-pull}}225497).

> * Improves the AI Assistant Settings page by updating the logos to be solution-specific [#224906]({{kib-pull}}224906).

Reviewer: Not sure whether you want to call it Observability AI Assistant or AI Assistant throughout here, but probably best to pick one. My vote would be for "AI Assistant" for simplicity

* Adds docs for chat/complete public API [#224235]({{kib-pull}}224235).
* Improves Gemini prompts [#223476]({{kib-pull}}223476).
* Adds UI tests to validate the onboarding page [#232363]({{kib-pull}}232363).
* Shows span links when APM indices are available [#232135]({{kib-pull}}232135).
* Disables add-to-case functionality when all selected alerts are already added to a case [#231877]({{kib-pull}}231877).
* Adds `opamp_polling_interval` and `sampling_rate` in central config for EDOT application agents [#231835]({{kib-pull}}231835).
* Adds `kibana.alert.grouping` field to Synthetics monitor status rule [#230513]({{kib-pull}}230513).
* Adds error param on agent config API [#230298]({{kib-pull}}230298).
* Creates an API to detect existing schemas [#226597]({{kib-pull}}226597).

> * Adds ability to paste screenshot into markdown comment fields for cases [#226077]({{kib-pull}}226077).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds ability to paste screenshots into markdown comment fields for cases [#226077]({{kib-pull}}226077).
```
